
=head1 NAME

colibri -- formal concept analysis tool

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<colibri> [I<options>] I<command> [I<arguments>] [I<file>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<Colibri> computes the formal concepts of a binary relation read from
I<file>, or from standard input if no I<file> is provided. A binary
relation relates objects with features. For example, one could assign
features like I<red>, I<abstract>, I<landscape> to a photo. Given a
collection of photos tagged with such features, B<colibri> can mine
rules from the collection of photos.

=head1 GENERAL OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-debug>

Enable debugging. This is only used for development; debugging output
goes to standard error.

=back

=head1 COMMANDS

=over 4

=item B<size> 

Computes the number of objects, features,, and concepts for I<file> and
emits the result to stdout. 

=item B<dot>  

Computes the concept lattice for the binary relation in I<file> and
emits the lattice in Dot(1) format to stdout.

=item B<rules> [I<arguments>]

Compute rules and emit them to stdout. A rule is a set of features that
are common to many objects.  For a rule to be considered it must at at
least I<support> many instances and contain at least I<rhs> many
features. These two numbers are controlled by I<arguments>:

=over 4

=item B<-supp> 30

Minimum support for a rule to be considered; default: 30.

=item B<-rhs> 2

Minimum number of features (or tags) that are part of a rule.

=back


=item B<flaws> [I<arguments>] 

Compute rules and rule breakers. For a rule to be considered it must
have enough objects supporting it and not too many exceptions. This is
captured by I<arguments> for support and confidence. Support [1,...]
is the minimum number of objects that support a rule; confidence [0,1]
controls the acceptable number of exceptions. In addition, the number
of features in a rule and a rule breaker must not exceed a limit. All
three parameters are controlled by I<arguments>:

=over 4

=item B<-supp> 30

Minimum support for a rule to be considered; default: 30.

=item B<-conf> 0.9

Minimum confidence for a rule to be considered; default 0.9.

=item B<-diff> 2

Maximum difference in number of features between a rule and a rule
breaker; default 2.

=back

Rules are omitted to stdout in the following format:

    rule foo.cli (support 3, confidence 0.60)
      rhs        : a21 a12
      flaws (  2): o8 o4
      attrs (  1): a21

The rule states that features C<a21> and C<a12> appear together (in 3
rules in file C<foo.cli>). There are two rule breakers C<o8> and C<o4>
that have only feature C<a21> and the other one missing.


=item B<help>

Emits minimal help to standard output.

=item B<version>

Reports the program version to standard output.

=back

=head1 INPUT FORMAT

The input relates objects with features. The format is as follows:

    # sample input file for colibri; try:
    # colibri -dot example.bri

    chmod:		change file mode permission ;
    chown:		change file group owner;
    fstat:		get file status ;

Objects and features are delimited by a colon. features are
delimited by space and end with a semi colon. An object may have an
empty list of features. 

A comment starts with C<#>, C<-->, or C<%> and reaches to the end of the
line.

=head1 AUTHOR

Please send feedback, bug reports, and experience reports to the author:
Christian Lindig <lindig@cs.uni-sb.de>
L<http://www.st.cs.uni-sb.de/~lindig/>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2006 Christian Lindig <lindig@eecs.harvard.edu>. All
rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

=over

=item 1. 

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

=item 2. 

Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
with the distribution.

=back

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR AND COPYRIGHT HOLDER BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY,
OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR
TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF
THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGE.

=head1 VERSION

 $Id: colibri.pod 66 2006-11-27 13:26:34Z lindig $

=head1 SEE ALSO 

dot(1)

L<http://www.st.cs.uni-sb.de/~lindig/>



